this is lab number two for wireless
sensor networks
um so basically i'm just going to go
over an overview of what's expected
what's coming up and what you need to do
um this is only going to be a short zoom
can how do we adjust um
all right i'll get to your question um
um let me just go through the um
explanation
of this week's lab and then i'll answer
questions if you've got any questions
just make sure you chuck them in the
chat and i'll get to them at the end
after i get i guess
i finish the um what we're gonna do okay
so first thing is um basically we're
getting to the point where you need to
create a group if you don't have a group
um i'll explain how we can get you into
one
but we need to make up groups so you can
split up the software tasks and begin
your project
do that i've created an excel link which
i sent
out an announcement on teams and some of
you have filled that in
some of you haven't what i need you to
do is go to that latest announcement on
teams
oh there's a link to an excel
spreadsheet and i need you to fill it
out
with your team members so i can create a
private teams channel
for your group to work within that's
going to be the easiest way you guys can
pass
files make announcements talks to each
other have your own internal calls
without having to get everyone's
facebook details
or whatsapp or wechat
so i will need you to fill that excel
spreadsheet out um to do that you need
to log in with your uts account
so you can't just use any gmail hotmail
account i won't let you in
um you might if you're in a gmail
account you'll have to sign out
and sign in with your uts account if you
for some
reason aren't able to access it for any
reason
just private message me on teens
with your group members names and i will
create a
private group for you guys to work out
of um so that's the first thing
you need to do um after the end of this
call
so in regards to the assignment so this
the way the um
as i spoke about last week the project
is going to be split up into
two core components two assignments the
first assignment is the planning phase
and the second sign the second
assignment is the actual demo with no
actual report
so what we're building to over the next
couple of weeks is the preparation
planning phase
where you'll do your high level design
your flow charts your diagrams and where
all the data is getting passed to and
how your system's actually going to work
and a bit of research behind it um
the assignment is getting released uh
over the next few
sometime over the next few days might be
tonight maybe over the next few
couple of days negan's just um finessing
it and finishing it off and that will
get released which will give you a gun
of
a bit more accurate description and
direction
on how to um
on how to uh
accurate description on what to do and
what you're actually doing for the
preparation
and how many words to look for so
what we're going to do for today's lab
is uh once you fill out that excel
link or if you private message me i will
create a
private team for you and we need to
start
um i guess working out what project you
guys want to do whether you're doing
software or hardware if some of you
are remote then you'll probably need to
do
software unless one group member wants
to have the hardware and you
the other few group members want to be
responsible for the software
that's up to you that's a group's
decision
what i would recommend is um
i've got a list of things that i'll
upload in the teams of what to do today
once i split you into your groups
but basically i i think you need to
begin planning so
for the first step i would plan what
data and where you're getting it from so
if you're doing the software
project i would work out what api you
want to get so if you're getting weather
data what
where where can you get where the data
from to predict rain
to project the dry spell um if you're
doing a farming type program
i would then work out um what dashboard
or server
you're going to use what kind of
database sql lite
um so forth then you're going to need to
work out
what a user interface so if you want to
develop that in node node red use a um
have the data going up to that server
and then create your own dashboard
within that and then the goal is to be
able to view that data on a different pc
but a different
um pc so i know that's a lot to take in
i'll put that all up there
and in respect to oh sorry it's gonna
add
um cool and now in
respect to the assignment what the
assignment's gonna ask you to do over
the next few days is to actually
collate some research papers from some
reputable sources so i just thought i'd
share my screen on basically how i would
go about that i'm just in some of you
may already know how to do this
it's using ieee explore which is a
resource that uts library
specifically gives you access to
otherwise you wouldn't
so i'll just share my screen
one second
okay um so hopefully you can see
uh the uts library screen could someone
drop in the chat if they can
um just so i know if anyone could just
say yes
screen's coming up i'm just trying it's
visible
yep cool thanks okay
so what i would do uh for those of you
that aren't familiar with if you go to
the uts library website
i would then um log in which is in the
top right corner and after you log in
you'll be
faced with this page i'd click new
search
and i'd type in ieee
explore
let that load
it'll be the first link you'll click
that link
and then click this link ieee
electronic library and basically
here is a amazing research
resource for published research by
reputable sources all across the
academic community
so if we're doing so this the idea of
this project is focusing on low power
wireless networks
so for example if i was looking up a
paper
to support i guess a um a
low pan low pen
network
i would type that in and if we wait
um you have a whole bunch of
like pages and pages of different um
papers that have been put out by
academics
um across the world uh relating to that
topic
um so that's what negan wants you to do
when your assignment comes across
is finding these academic papers and
collating them and
using the information found out of them
to construct your own and basically
use it as a backup resource for how you
plan to use your system and
kind of why in the architecture and so
forth
um so now what i will get you to do is
i will need everyone to um
every the goal is for this lesson is for
everyone to break out into their own
teams into their own channels and have
internal calls in
in there so you can start to allocate
roles um
and work out the project you guys want
to do
so i'll stop screen sharing um so
has anyone got any problems with
creating a team or doesn't know how to
access the excel or message me
on teams to create it for you can anyone
put the chat if there's a problem with
that
cool so i assume that there's no
problems um
okay um in terms of uh so the question
is how to adjust the screen resolution
of
our vm um i will actually uh
post that into uh your team's channel so
if you could add me
uh how meow um if you could add me into
the team's channel i think i
created one for your group already um i
wrote up a little doc on how to solve
that problem myself
um that i got it working after a couple
of attempts
but it should extend the dock that i've
written that should explain
what i need to do so the zoom call
is pretty much going to end here please
message me if you need um
to be added to a team if you don't have
a team that's what this lab is for to
get sorted
and what you should be doing is breaking
out into your group starting to allocate
roles deciding the project you want to
do
um and if you have any questions just at
me and i'll join your team's call
or you can just write a status within
your local teams
and i will call reply to your message on
there um for the next two hours
um is anyone confused do i have any
questions
before the zoom call ends
could you just break us into like sub
channels in
zoom i think we can do that
um what we want we we're trying to get
you to use
uh we're trying to get you to use
uh teams because as soon as i end this
zoom call
um you guys won't be able to stay within
your breakout rooms because it'll end
the whole hosting session
um and also the reason we want you to
use teams is a way
for you to get familiar with teams
because that way you can have your own
calls during your own time and also use
the file resource within teams
um to talk to each other and that way
you can also keep a
log does that make sense
cool all right so i'll end the zoom here
and start creating the individual um
teams groups um please fill out the
excel spreadsheet
and i will add you in them um ask me any
questions and i'll upload
i guess what i've spoken about just now
as in what i
would do for the next steps of the
project development
um during this lab so use this lab to
communicate with each other
and start your planning and then i guess
wait for the release of assignment one
which should be over the next coming
days
thank you feel free to leave
or ask any questions before you leave
um in regards to choosing a topic
um what we want you to do is trying to
find a real world
problem um can you suggest how we should
decide or any suggestion
um basically i would look up
b we're trying to direct you to an iot
solution
for the modern world so i would be
looking up like
the easiest problem to go for the go to
if you're confused and this is something
you're new to
is something like a um smart farm or a
tracking system for the movement of
vehicles in and out of an area or the
movement of people
something where you can have basically a
sensor
a sensor that collects data and
uh transmits over a low power uploads to
a server and then viewed on that
now in terms of if you're doing software
you don't have
the choice of um you don't have the
choice of
what sensors you use so what you need to
look for is what apis
are available already out there that i
can get data from whether it's live data
or whether it's data sets that have
already been
pre-collected so i know there's a
open i think it's called open weather
where you can get weather data for
specific locations so
if you were to do a smart farm you would
get weather data from that api
where you could get the temperature the
predicted rainfall um
how dry it is the community level which
is essential
for farming i guess saving water when
you're going to plant your crops when
you when you shouldn't do it
and by that you're i guess cutting out
the whole
hardware part of getting the sensors and
the low power network but now your focus
is on
getting the iot side of it implemented
so getting that data
and pushing it up and then viewing it
which is still kind of a low power iot
solution so you should be thinking of
some
robotic or high data rate
project it should be very minimalist
data that can be
used in a meaningful way if that makes
sense
does that make sense
if if what i would do is i would
collect uh maybe if you're not too sure
just maybe look up a couple of topics
and then i can help you finesse which
one sounds best
if you can find a couple of things i
would look i would start looking at what
apis have data that you can get from
and maybe what can you do with that data
all look at other
low power different low power projects
that have been
developed already um yeah
that's how i would go about it
cool um so if uh if you're not into
teams or if you are
uh if you're not under teams i'll add
you to one if you're in the excel
spreadsheet
um and just add me on there um with your
status
if you come up with a whole list of
projects that um you want me to give you
a recommendation on or
not that's what i'm here for across the
next two hours to help you out um give
you a bit of direction or answer any
questions
otherwise just give me uh 10 minutes to
i guess
add everyone um to these teams groups
because i'm going to have to slowly go
through everyone so just give a 10
minute buffer
while i add everyone in there
[Music]
if you're still looking for a group is
it okay to create a
new conversation thread in the general
chat
of this subject and so that we can find
group members who are also
interested in the same stream and so
forth
yeah sure um uh
i do not know how to is in do you want
to create a
chat within zoom or you're asking
children within teams
yeah just a new conversation in teams
yeah sure um did you want me to create
that for you
oh is it okay for me to just post it
there and uh use that channel too yeah
yeah just post it
um yeah so actually what i'll do is i'll
make a new conversation
um and i'll just looking
okay so i created a new conversation
just basically comment below if you're
looking for a group member
um post probably what if you're
interested in software hardware
um and then i would just yeah pick your
names and then once you
find three group members maybe thumbs it
up if you're comfortable working with
each other
and then get one of you create maybe
create a private chat
um and then once you guys are
comfortable we'll see eye to eye on the
project fill out that excel spreadsheet
and i'll create that team for you
perfect thank you
all right feel free anyone else who
doesn't have a group yet to also comment
on that
team's conversation that i just created
that way you can find a group member
so
[Music]
hey i'm just starting to water but uh
can you show me how to
access the alexa things again yeah sure
give me one second i'm just uploading a
document for another student and then i
will
get it oh good
okay
i just need to create one more
teams group and then i will give you the
demo
actually i'll just give you the demo now
quickly um
there is my screen
[Music]
um
okay so
share my screen
cool all right so hopefully you can see
the
uts libraries screen um so this is i
just typed in the uhs library on google
and click the first link uh if we go to
my library
in the corner um it should ask you to
log in i think i'm already logged in so
i might just default
skip it um
yep so just default skipped it for me
once i was logged in
i clicked new search at the top
typed in ieee explorer
enter
click the first link
and then clicked the full text
availability
which should take you to ieee explore
um you can access ieee explore
through google without going through uts
libraries but it won't actually
let you download any of the papers so
you need to go through uts library to
actually view any of the papers
unless they've changed their permissions
and made them free but they really do
that make sense is that
clear enough yeah yeah thanks um i'll
put up
a written description in the teams on i
guess how to do it in case you want to
review it later
oh just a question about virtual
machines and using contiki
um is it okay for us to use any other
virtualizer that we want
or any are there any instructions in the
labs that rely on using virtualbox
it re the instructions and labs that are
posted
rely on using virtualbox and contiki
in saying that you're free to do if
you're comfortable with using something
else
um you're more than welcome to but just
just hyper why is it instead of setting
it sorry just a hypervisor so hyper v
for example on
uh windows rather than virtualbox if
that's okay
to use yeah um yeah that's fine but it's
just
it just means it just means that i can't
if i'm not familiar with it i can't
assist you with it that's the only
problem
yeah still using kuntik is just a
different hypervisor
yeah yeah it's just yeah that's fine um
yeah again yeah it's just different vm
right
yeah yeah that's thank you yeah yeah
oh good
[Music]
do
so
[Music]
this
so
[Music]
the mini channels um are displayed as
uh your group the group number um
that i've created for yours it should be
um group
15.
one sec i've just gotta add you to your
team i apologize
[Music]
um i've just tagged you in your group
that you're in uh
it's a make sure
yeah group 15 thank you that's all right
um i'll be staying in the zoom if you
guys have any questions along the way so
feel free
to just add them to the chat
or come off mood if you have any
specific questions to your project
otherwise i can see your
statuses in teams
[Music]
ah
yes
uh